Flow is a state in which an individual is completely immersed in an
activity without reflective self-consciousness but with a deep sense
of control. Preconditions of the flow state are thought to include
skills-demands compatibility, clear goals, and immediate feedback.
Previous work has often assumed an idiosyncratic relationship between
a given person and the activities that that person is intrinsically
motivated to engage in. Here the focus is on the structural
characteristics of the activities themselves. Certainly personal
preference plays some role, but it seems plausible that some
activities may be more conducive to flow than other activities after
controlling for personal preference.

❡ In an exploratory approach, we ask participants to select two physical
activities that are familiar and assign relative rankings on 20
characteristics. For example, "How clear and straightforward are the
short-term rules and goals?" with response options such as "PA1 has
much more clear rules and goals than PA2." or "Both have equally clear
rules and goals." or "PA2 has somewhat more clear rules and goals than
PA1."

❡ These data are fed into a logistic model specified in the Stan
Bayesian programming language. Each activity is considered to have 20
standard normally distributed latent parameters (1 for each
characteristic). Each characteristic is separately modeled as a
categorical response determine by the difference in latent score PA1 -
PA2 on that characteristics with a characteristic-specific slope and
dataset-wide category thresholds. A univariate Gaussian prior is used
to gently link together novice, amateur, and expert sets of
parameters.

❡ As an incentive to recruit participants, preliminary model output is
available for exploration. Each activity is ranked on each
characteristic. Participants may choose weights to describe which
characteristics are of personal interest to produce a linear composite
score. This linear composite may assist participants in selection of
new physical activities to explore from our large, crowd-sourced
collection. For example, one person may wish to give positive weights
to unpredictability, opportunities to express creativity, and
environmental complexity. Someone else may give priority to a lack of
waiting (a preference for continuous action) and the greatest possible
feeling of personal control.

❡ For the subset of activities with sufficient sample size, we present a
theory-driven factor analysis to connect activity characteristics with
the experience of flow. With disclaimers for the cross-sectional
nature of the data collection, an exploratory factor analysis
indicates which activities characteristics are more structural facets
of the activities and which are more a function of idiosyncratic
personal preference. More tightly controlled experiments are suggested
to examine the indicated hypotheses with more confirmatory methods.
