Is there a wakeful mental state during which there is a temporary
cessation of thought?

cite Tim Wilson's crazy book: Handbook of Self-Knowledge

survey described and illustrated mental silence because worried about floor effects

Just because you can't measure it doesn't mean that it doesn't
exist. Cite Heisenburg paper

Are we really measuring mental silence?

cite Cook & Beckman (2006) for validity

IRT intro -- show 10 point Likert scale and discuss the assumption of
equal intervals

method

results

x descriptive stats
x PCM model
x item response curves
x infit/outfit
x response patterns
x information summed across all items (?)
x summary statistics of infit/outfit
x summary statistics (mean, median, SD, min, max) of item and person parameters
x which model estimation procedure?
x distribution of person parameters
  drop stuff that misfits (?)

Discussion questions

Who is causing mental silence? In Indian philosophy, individual
identity is a composite of two concepts atma and paramatma. Points to
problem with questions like ``Can you cause yourself to experience MS''

Related point: What is meant by accidental? Some teachers say that
mental silence can only be caused by the individuals own desire.

Contrasts are important for validity. Looking for a context for each
of mental silence and boredom where the target experience is
difficult. Hard to find for mental silence.

How to distinguish mental silence and daydreaming?

One participant said that mental silence was important for
daydreaming; He defined prayer as the combination of daydreaming and
mental silence.

Any other proximate contrasts similar but different from mental silence?

Collaborate on data collection?


+++ outline +++

intro to mental silence
intro to IRT
discuss scale design and validity
method
results
+ item chisq fits
+ min & max SEs
+ item response curves, data vs model
+ outfit
+ plot total information of all items
+ distribution of person parameters conditional on recruiting
discussion
+ proposed new items
+ qualitative discussion of various issues

open science framework
nosek's checklists
